[docs] setting up grafana and prometheus (#32606)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/running-applications/monitoring-and-observability.rst

.. _multi-node-metrics:

Prometheus
^^^^^^^^^^

> Ray supports prometheus for emitting and recording time-series metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray supports Prometheus for emitting and recording time-series metrics.
```

See :ref:`metrics <ray-metrics>` for more details of the metrics emitted.

> When using Prometheus in a Ray cluster, one must decide where they want to host prometheus and then configure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Prometheus in a Ray cluster, configure
```

> Prometheus so that Prometheus can scrape the metrics from Ray.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it so that it can scrape the metrics from Ray.
```

                    'object_store_memory': 2.0},
     'alive': True}]
    """

.. _multi-node-metrics-grafana:

Grafana
^^^^^^^

> Ray dashboard integrates with grafana to show visualizations of time-series metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray dashboard integrates with Grafana to show visualizations of time-series metrics.
```

.. image:: images/graphs.png
    :align: center

> First, you must decide where you want to host Grafana. One common place is to run it on the head node of the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First decide where to host Grafana. A common location is on the head node of the cluster.
```

> See :ref:`here <grafana>` for instructions on how to install Grafana and how to use the default Grafana configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :ref:`instructions <grafana>` for installing Grafana and using the default Grafana configurations
```

exported by Ray.

> Next, the head node must be able to access Prometheus and Grafana and the browser of the dashboard user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, the head node must be able to access Prometheus and Grafana, and the browser of the dashboard user
```

> must be able to access Grafana. You can configure these settings using the `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST`, `RAY_PROMETHEUS_HOST`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
must be able to access Grafana. Configure these settings using the `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST`, `RAY_PROMETHEUS_HOST`,
```

and `RAY_GRAFANA_IFRAME_HOST` environment variables.

> * `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST` should be set to an address that the head node can use to access Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST` to an address that the head node can use to access Grafana.
```

> * `RAY_PROMETHEUS_HOST` should be set to an address the head node can use to access Prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set `RAY_PROMETHEUS_HOST` to an address the head node can use to access Prometheus.
```

> * `RAY_GRAFANA_IFRAME_HOST` can be set to an address for the user's browsers to use to access Grafana. By default, `RAY_GRAFANA_IFRAME_HOST` will be equal to `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  You can set`RAY_GRAFANA_IFRAME_HOST` to an address for the user's browsers to access Grafana. By default, `RAY_GRAFANA_IFRAME_HOST` is equal to `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST`.
```

> For example, if the ip of the head node is 55.66.77.88 and grafana is hosted on port 3000. One should set the value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the IP of the head node is 55.66.77.88 and Grafana is hosted on port 3000. Set the value
```

to `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST=55.66.77.88:3000`.

.. _multi-node-metrics-grafana-existing:

Using an existing Grafana instance
##################################

> When you want to use existing Grafana instance, before starting your Ray cluster you will need to setup environment variable `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST` with an URL of your Grafana. After starting Ray, you can find Grafana dashboard json at `/tmp/ray/session_latest/metrics/grafana/dashboards/default_grafana_dashboard.json`. `Import this dashboard <https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/manage-dashboards/#import-a-dashboard>`_ to your Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use an existing Grafana instance, set up the environment variable `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST` environment variable with a URL of your Grafana, before starting your Ray cluster. After starting Ray, find the Grafana dashboard JSON at `/tmp/ray/session_latest/metrics/grafana/dashboards/default_grafana_dashboard.json`. `Import this dashboard <https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/manage-dashboards/#import-a-dashboard>`_ to your Grafana.
```
